We're not just a distributor of other
people's IP. We own our own IP.
>> But how do you change the hearts and the
minds of the broader US demographic with
regards to artificial intelligence
>> mythos? I think it's rumored to be the
first 10 trillion parameter model.
>> It's better to have your own chips and
demand than not having your own chips.
>> Where's the next big bottleneck? The
next big bottleneck will be largely
around
>> is there some line in the sand, some
benchmark you would determine Gemini is
no longer safe to release publicly. We
have more demand than we can possibly
meet from all the other AI labs.
>> Thomas, what keeps you up at night?
>> All right, Thomas, thank you for joining
me today. We're at the Google Cloud
Campus and I really appreciate your time
today.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I am super excited to talk to you. I
have a bunch of questions for you.
The first question I've been thinking
about so much lately is TPU capacity.
When you look at the other frontier labs
like anthropic and open AI, all they
talk about is being uh compute
constrained. M
>> but then you see Google over here who
you know you have the full stack you
have your own chips but you're not only
serving your own inference you're
training you're selling inference uh you
are also allowing some of your
competitors to build on top of your own
chips you're also selling your own chips
how do you have so much capacity or how
do you think about it whereas the other
frontier labs can't seem to get enough
>> if you think about what percentage of
the world are we monetizing and in some
places we monetize the tokens as the
token and the chip. In other places we
monetize the token, somebody else's
model but using a chip underneath it.
And part of the reason is we go back
many many years and we do long-term
planning. And so when we saw this AI
moment coming, we looked at a number of
different factors to ensure we were not
physically constrained. We diversified
how many energy sources we had. We
locked in real estate so we could build
data centers. We changed how we
manufacture data centers. We don't build
them in construction. We shifted a lot
more to manufacturing because
manufacturing can always do faster than
you can do with construction. We reduced
cycle time to deploy machines. All of
that was stuff we've done and uh that
helps us capacity wise. And then on the
silicon side, we've always worked with
Nvidia as a partner, but we've also
wanted to build our own silicon and
we've done it for for I think it's like
11th year now or 12th year. Eighth
generation TPU will be announced at our
event.
>> Yeah, we're going to talk about that.
>> And so that's something we've got real
art of doing over and over and over and
delivering that advantage over and over.
And it's something we've delivered. And
the interesting thing is we see demand
now from not just from the AI labs but
from other segments. You'll see Citadel
for example in capital markets talking
about how they using our TPUs. You'll
see Department of Energy and high
performance computing customers talk
about it. So we're also seeing TPUs
becoming more general purpose
infrastructure, not just for AI
algorithms. And so when you're looking
at monetizing TPUs across all of the
different avenues that you have to
allocate your compute, how how does it
compare? Can you maybe if you want to
share specific numbers, great. But if
you're looking at just comparing and
contrasting selling a TPU versus uh
allowing anthropic or open AAI to serve
their inference through your
infrastructure versus your own Gemini
models, h how do those different avenues
compare? We balance investments across
all these, you know, and we make great
margins no matter which way we're
selling it because we own our own IP.
We're not just a distributor of other
people's IP. I think that's helped us
and you've seen us improve both topline
and operating margin. We've also moved
TPUs now as for example when you look at
capital markets. One of the things we
find that's very interesting is that
algorithmic trading was done using
numerical computation which was largely
done on traditional compute that's been
constrained by the Moors law. The
incremental improvement you see
generation to generation is getting
slower and so many of the top firms have
seen the huge improvements they can get
by shifting to inference. instead of
doing computation using numerical
techniques if you shift to inference you
can write the improvements you're seeing
in inference time and as they've come in
they want our machines in their venues
where it's closer to where the exchanges
are for example
>> right
>> so we've started taking TPUs and making
available in other people's data center
for some of our key customers and that's
a slightly different uh business model
and we have you know in in macro I would
say diverse Diversification improves
product because you see requirements
from many places. Diversification in
monetization also helps us grow. I mean
uh when we deal with supply chain
vendors for example because we are using
these chips not just for our own needs
but also offering them a market they say
well Google's demand is a sum total of a
much larger pool and as a result we get
favorable terms.
>> I want to stick on this point for a
moment longer. If compute demand is
infinite, I mean even just for the R&D
side, why not why not just hoard the
compute? Why not just keep it? And to
put a finer point on it, if AGI is is
really the goal that all of the AI labs
are heading toward towards and whoever
hits it first and is able to scale it
out
>> wins, it seems like keeping the
capacity, keeping it for yourself,
keeping it for your own models is
actually quite beneficial. What am I
missing? You have to make money to fund
all of this.
>> Google makes a ton of money,
>> but you have to keep generating cash
flow to do it
>> and this is one more lever for us to
generate sufficient cash flow. And the
amount we allocate to other people is
balanced always against our own needs
and our own capital requirements. And
you know, no matter which lab you're in,
venture capital cannot fund you
indefinitely. Yeah. And as compute costs
grow, if you're running a loss leader
business where you're losing money, uh,
and you're not making enough money from
inference and other techniques to cover
the cost of training, as that gap gets
wider, the number of sources you can go
to gets smaller.
>> I've been talking about how Google is in
such a unique position. They have the
cash cows,
>> they have the chips, they have the
models. Uh do does does your Gemini team
ever come to you and say like we don't
have enough or I I I know I'm really
stick on this point. It's just so wild
for me to hear where where these other
companies are just not able to keep up.
>> There's always demand for these things
and it'll
>> I think for the next 10 years there will
always be more demand than supply and
that's a good place to be in if you have
your own chip. If you don't, you're
reselling other people's stuff. And in a
capacity constraint environment, your
unit economics get more expensive. And
in our case, because we control the
chip, the unit economics remain
attractive. So that is going to be an
advantage for us because we own the
silicon. So if you look at the whole pie
of your TPUs of your compute
infrastructure, can you talk a little
bit about what the split is between
training inference selling TPUs serving
inference for other labs?
>> BroadB brush I think we don't talk about
the details so I'm not going to go
through every element
>> but broadbrush if you look in macro
cloud is about half of Alphabet's
capital and it's growing because it's
growing much faster as you know. So
that's like a split and then on our side
a significant part of our growth is
coming from Gemini and our models and so
you can use that as a rough
approximation.
>> Okay. You you mentioned data centers and
building out data centers. Can you
explain what the difference is between
construction and manufacturing when
you're talking about data centers?
>> Yeah, it's just uh what is the unit at
which you're deploying capacity. So you
could take for example
a rack of machines, assemble it in a
data center. You could take an entire
row of machines and deploy it in a data
center. The higher the grain at which
you can deploy, the more you can
preconstruct it, pre-est it in a central
location, which means you're much faster
in deployment. When you're planning
deployment of a new data center, I
you're probably more aware than anybody
there's a pretty negative sentiment
about data centers in the US
specifically. I think it's 20%
favorability. H
>> how do you think about that and and h
how do you think the broader AI industry
can start to change the opinion, change
the sentiment around artificial
intelligence and specifically deploying
data centers which gives the US a
strategic advantage. It's I tend to be
very optimistic about AI in general. So,
how do you think about that?
>> What people are really concerned about
on data centers is a couple of things.
Number one, you know, will energy costs
in my state or my county go up?
>> Right?
>> Second, will there be sufficient
employment in the local community in
which the data center operates? And so,
there's a couple of things that we're
doing. First one is we're investing in
behind the meter technology where we're
not taking energy off the grid and we
cross connect to the grid if the state
wants it so that in case there's short
supply on the grid our energy can fuel
the grid. We're investing in alternate
forms of energy because we think that
the traditional mode of generate and
distribute is not necessarily the only
way that energy supply will come into
the market. And so one of the things
we're we're looking at is can you reduce
the unit cost of energy with new forms
of energy delivery created by the demand
for AI but then can serve the broader
market. Third, we take a lot we pay a
lot of attention to making sure the unit
of energy we're consuming what's called
PUE that we have the best in the
industry. Meaning, if you need a 100
megawatts of compute, how little
incremental megawws do you need from the
energy source so you're not wasting
energy? And we're by far the most
efficient at that in the world. And
there's a thousand things that go into
that on thermodynamic exchange, how we
do heating, all of that. Lastly, we're
investing in the communities in which
we're in. And to avoid the communities
feeling like Google's deploying in one
giant location, we distribute it in many
places so that no individual state feels
like we're becoming a big burden on
their resources. And we've had a great
track record. I travel to many many of
our data centers. And when you go to the
local economy and see the kids in the
school systems and you see the employees
who operate our data centers who are
super important to us, how much economic
development we bring to those rural
communities where, you know, we think
that's part of our responsibility.
>> That's fantastic. What about the broader
sentiment and not the local community?
Because when you go in, you create jobs,
you're investing, you're not using the
electricity and driving up the prices
directly. Um, that's all wonderful, but
how do you actually change the the
hearts and the minds of the broader US
demographic with regards to artificial
intelligence? That's going to be a
process, you know, and I think it's
finding places where you can apply the
technology in a way that's good for
society rather than just uh, you know,
causing issues where people are worried
about job displacement. I'll give you
just a few examples of things,
>> please.
>> You'll see in our, you know, keynote a
company called Signal. They do not talk
about it. They're a health insurer based
in Germany. They're the largest health
insurer in Germany. They today deploy a
lot of agents built on Gemini uh
enterprise to to help their teams do
work. Now the really interesting thing
was there was a lot of anxiety when we
started the work with them that it would
mean job displacement. They have not let
go anybody and in fact what they found
is the accuracy with which and the speed
with which they can answer questions
from people about
uh am I eligible for this treatment or
not. It's cut down from in some cases 23
minutes to research an answer now to
less than a few seconds. And so that's
improved efficiency. It's improved
quality of their customer care and
they've not let go a single job. Uh we
work for example with the American
Society for Clinical Oncology. They're
the large the 51,000 members every
oncologist in the United States. They
wanted an application where AI was
helping a doctor sitting down to deal
with a patient to understand standard of
care guidelines which is this person's
come in they have breast cancer what's
the guideline it turns out they're also
diabetic I can't prescribe chemo if
they're diabetic of this kind there's a
lot these rules are incredibly
complicated in many cases they overlap
and they wanted some help on providing
answers
the answers have to be 100% correct.
>> You can have hallucination and we've
helped them and it helps doctors take
care of patients and the feedback from
their membership has been incredibly
rewarding to see. So there are lots of
examples and we always say the most
important thing for example is building
a wealth advisor. So today, if you think
of the average citizen, they get uh if
you're a high netw worth person, you can
go to a private bank and you have wealth
management professional advise you. If
you're an average person who doesn't
have those financial resources, you may
not get high quality advice. Cityroup is
building a wealth advisor. they're going
to be showing it at the event
which allows you to use our reasoning
and task management capabilities in
Gemini to advise people and also to help
them take investment actions if they
want. So these are examples of things
that society is going to find
beneficial. It takes time to get the
balance between the AI is going to cause
massive job displacement to also hear
from this side of things and that's part
of the journey we're on as a as a
society.
>> I I do agree. I think job displacement
in particular is is something the
general population in the US is
extremely worried about. Let me ask you
directly for your organization, Google
Cloud. Now that you're seeing your
engineers and and other parts of your
organization be more productive because
of artificial intelligence, more
automation, are you hiring? Are you
letting go folks? Are you stable? Where
where are you on that front?
>> We're adding people for products and
sales. We're hiring a lot of people in a
goto market organization. We're hiring a
lot of forward deployed engineers. And
in places where we're building new
product, we're adding capability. like
an example I will tell you here's an
example of what people don't see a long
time ago we said as models became more
sophisticated
in understanding code
and second as models learn how to use
computers to do tasks there are lots of
things they can do amazingly well but
one of the issues with understanding
code is they can also find
vulnerabilities in code
>> and so enormous anxiety about cyber
security vulnerabilities from some of
the new models.
>> We're going to talk about that.
>> Made a decision a long time ago to do
three things. Number one,
helping improve Gemini as a way to
detect issues in code. And we have a lot
of customers using it. Second, helping
build a model that can repair code
because if you're finding
vulnerabilities very quickly, people may
not be able to keep up. So, can a model
assist you in fixing it? And we have new
capability coming for that. When we
acquired this company whiz, you'll see
us showing new capability with whis and
it's really about continuous detection.
>> Mhm.
>> You know, people call it continuous red
teaming. So, we're going to show three
different types of agents. An agent that
continually attacks you to make sure
your vulnerabilities are being fixed and
you don't get caught off guard, which
you couldn't do before. an agent that
prioritizes
the issues that are being discovered so
that you can get okay these are the ones
I really need to fix and then a third
one that helps you fix them.
>> I'm glad to hear you're you're still
hiring.
>> They're more productive and hiring.
>> I I there are companies out there I
think Block is the the big one. You know
Jack Dorsey put out this blog post laid
off half of their organization blamed AI
or pointed at AI as the reason. What do
you think the difference is between like
how Google sees this productivity
increase and is still increasing
employment versus Block who said, "No,
we're actually going to transform the
company. We need we need half as many
people and we're going to do things
better." Where's the discrepancy there?
>> Every company has demand for its
products and services and each CEO makes
their own decisions. We're seeing plenty
of demand and so we're investing.
>> Let's talk about Nvidia for a moment. Um
Jensen just did a podcast with Taresh
and he talked about how uh Nvidia and
their architecture is the cheapest on a
per token basis overall total cost of
ownership that's because of CUDA and
MVLink networking tooling delivering
better tokconomics. Can do do you agree
with that assessment? Do you think
Google is the best overall total cost of
ownership? Uh and uh if not how does
Google catch up? We have a lot of
customers who say we are the best total
cost of ownership.
>> I guess that was the answer, right?
>> I mean the reality is if you're an AI
lab, you choose the best platform. It's
not just our own teams that use it. We
have more demand than we can possibly
meet from all the other AI labs. And so
I would just tell you that uh they would
not be asking for TPU if we were much
more expensive.
>> Is a big factor of what makes TPU
special the speed? I've noticed the
Gemini family of models is very fast and
as a speed maxi myself, I very much
appreciate the speed and typically when
you're looking at A6, they're
specialized. They tend to be a lot
faster than the generalized GPU. Like is
that a selling point for a lot of AI
labs or for your own customers or are
they still saying quality all day?
Quality quality. It's a combination I
would say three core elements because I
think it's not the chip, it's the
system. A TPU system for example uh 8
has 9600 chips. Uh 8i is I think 1152
all on a single optical Taurus network.
So there's incredibly high bandwidth,
super predictable latency across all the
the the chips in a pod. And that gives
you for example when you look at the
speed with which we're able to take
stuff out of the memory for processing
and to put stuff back in memory it's
extraordinarily efficient. Uh just to
give you an example 8T the training chip
can fit two pabytes of memory in a
single system. Two pabytes is like 100
times the size of all the Library of
Congress digitized.
>> Yeah.
uh and because it's the super low
latency network, your throughput from
memory into the chips themselves are
extremely fast. Third, as as if you look
above that layer uh from a programming
stack point of view, uh you have a lot
of tools that Google has built and given
to the industry that's used for compiler
optimization. for example, Jax, we've
done great work with PyTorch, you know,
XLA, Pathways, these are all technology
that Google's built. And so to you put
all of that together and even if you
look at inference, VLM, there's a number
of technologies that we super optimized.
It's that whole stack that makes that
TPU system so efficient and so powerful.
And you see that measure through what we
call goodput. goodput is how much
effective throughput are you seeing. We
also made some decisions a long time ago
like three four years ago for instance
we saw that energy to your point earlier
on energy was going to be short supply
so we focused on optimizing
the dollars per watt or tokens per watt
and I think that's another element that
you see a lot of people wanting. So you
you've talked a little bit about
planning and the TP remind me you said
11 years.
>> Yes.
>> 11 years ago.
>> It's kind of wild to see that a decision
made so long ago long in in the tech
world has bared so much fruit in the
last few years. Um how how much change
how much variance in your planning
happens based on what you're seeing in
the market today? uh do do the decisions
that you made years and years ago apply
and they're just steadfast or are you
having to change things constantly?
>> I would say the the the history we have
across the different layers of the stack
has compounded over time. When we did
TensorFlow, we realized you needed a
large scale distributed programming
model for training and we built JS for
example. That was something that was
compounded on our history of learning
from what people were trying with
TensorFlow and needing a new
distributed, you know, training model,
right? So,
>> some of these accumulate over time
because we learn from what we're doing
from prior and we're inc we're making
new improvements. We're also incredibly
attuned to the market, listening to
customers, making decisions like people
asked us why did you build 8i, you know,
the inference chip. It's because it's
we've seen that as you eventually no
matter how rich you are, you cannot fund
training without making money on
inference. And so you have to at least
cover the cost of your training from a
break even point of view over time. You
can't just always depend on venture
capitalists to fund you. Um and so we
said there's going to be a big demand
for inference. We knew what the factors
we needed to optimize for inference and
you know frankly the demand for the
inference the 8i has been way way more
than we expected.
>> Let's talk about the eighth gen chip. So
this is the first time where you have
split out two two different chips family
but two different chips one for
inference one for pre-training. Um first
just confirm Ironwood
was
uh more built for inference.
>> Ironwood was a mix chip. It was used for
training and inference. Yeah, I think
>> people people run for example inference
there's a lot of donality to it during
for like chat during the daytime people
wake up and they ask a bunch of
questions at night even some people
still sleep and so at that time a lot of
people were using it spot for inference
like post training a lot of people were
doing on spot instances at night so it's
a it's a general purpose chip uh with 8
T is mostly for training. Some people
are considering using it for inference.
And I is primarily for inference,
although people with smaller models also
use it for training.
>> Based on the fact that you decided to
split the chips, what does that say
about where the workloads are heading?
What do you see today? And then what
what do you think we're going to see
over the next, let's say, 5 years? Where
are the major workloads going to be? So
we you see that in the work we're doing
with Gemini as much as in the silicon.
So if you look at Gemini,
we've seen sort of three phases if you
will with the models. The first phase
was where people were asking the model a
set of questions
and it was answering and you may iterate
on it in a multi-turn but it was
primarily uh kind of a a search chatbot
like experience. So our Gemini
enterprise product does provide the
ability to do search and answer
questions. It also added deep research
to do deep analysis. Mhm.
>> Then the second phase came along where
people used to use diffusion models
primarily to create content
uh like images, audio, video and then
with 25 nano banana we added uh media in
was always true but media out became
part of the main model. And so we saw
people from creative, for example, WPP,
uh, a variety of CPG firms using Gemini
Enterprise, our enterprise AI platform
to create content.
And, uh, and there's all kinds of
content creation now going on with it.
>> Mhm.
>> And then the models became really good
at dealing with the abstractions of the
world. And when I say abstraction the
world, if you go to a company, the model
has to be hooked into a variety of
different systems. That is to talk to
your CRM system to ask answer questions
about customers. It may have to look at
your supply chain and planning systems.
And as the models became really good at
dealing with those and the ultimate
abstraction is abstracting the rest of
the world as a computer because if you
can talk to a computer the computer can
talk to everything because all these
forms of software are just abstractions
for how a computer can talk to it.
>> Do do you think that is the ultimate
abstraction of model being able to
control computers computer use browser
use
>> but understanding the information that
comes from those systems as well. It's
not just I can talk to a computer but I
need to be able to respond to the
information the computer gives me. Do
you see what I mean? And so
>> that's then led to this notion of agent.
An agent is uh you know a module let's
call it that that you can delegate tasks
to. The agent describes itself as a set
of skills and it knows how to operate a
set of tools and then it can operate
those including a computer and do tasks
on your behalf. Now for us that allows
people whether it's Xfinity using us for
their you know to schedule and manage
all their customer care. Uh Walmart
using us for a variety of things in
their organization from planning to
scheduling. Bosch in manufacturing using
us. Merc has talked about how they're
using us for research and uh you know uh
patient from the drug discovery out to
delivering uh to patients the whole
cycle being automated and that's the
next phase of evolution and so part of
it is we're sort of co-designing as the
skills of the model advance were able to
broaden the set of things that can be
done. tie it back to how that informed
the decision to split up the two chips
between inferencing and training.
>> So if you look back when you asked
search a quest the first phase
>> there were a lot more input tokens than
output tokens when you asked the model a
set of questions cuz you would ask it a
very complicated long described question
it would say this is the answer.
Then when you came to
uh content generation, you would give it
a simple prompt. Create a video that
shows my dog wearing a Superman cape and
driving a car. And then it would take a
while to generate the output tokens. So
that generated a very different mix of
tokens of the type of tokens.
Multimodality
was one big thing and then the volume of
output tokens grew.
Then you come along to agents. It
informed chip design in three or four
different ways. It informed us on how
long you need to maintain stuff in
memory. So for example, how what kind of
KV cache would you want because now
you're delegating something that could
run for 6 7 12 hours. You don't want to
be shuffling things in and out as tokens
because they get expensive. So that's
one example of something. Second
example,
you want this to this system to operate
a computer. By the way, that computer is
a traditional classical compute machine.
>> So when people asked us, how did that
inform your chip effort? We not only
work with Intel, we all have our own ARM
chips. And so we built that because we
saw general purpose compute usage coming
from these tools. When you run for
inference an agent that does many many
different steps, there are things about
how you want to hold and pin objects in
memory in the model so that the model
runs things super efficiently because
that can really optimize the cost of
inference. There are many things we've
done internally on how the chip can hold
things in memory. Uh and then because
people wanted even a practical example,
people want inference in many locations
because they want to manage latency
unlike training where you can put it in
a few big locations.
>> So a practical example is 8i can be run
in nonwater cooled mode so that you can
put it in many more locations because
air cooling is still the primary thing
in most data centers. So there's a lot
of thought that goes into these
decisions. I'm just giving you three
simple examples to illustrate.
>> Yeah, I I think the the agent piece is
really interesting because it really
changes the way that those tokens are
actually used in practice.
>> Um, obviously Nvidia talks a lot about
extreme code design. Google seems like
they have extreme code design on every
layer. Yes.
>> Um, first talk about like with agentic
usage, especially if you're doing a lot
of read and writes to a hard drive or
you you know there there's like a lot of
pieces that you need to optimize for.
What's the latest thing that you've
optimized for in the TPU stack? And then
where do you think the next big
bottleneck is based on aic usage growth?
>> So we look at the whole system all the
time. Uh, couple examples. We're
announcing two new storage solutions
next week.
uh one is our managed luster solution.
We've improved it to run 10 terabytes
per second throughput. It is really
designed for large scale training.
>> So you can cross connected to a giant
cluster
and because you have large data sets,
you can read them from the the large
scale luster cluster now into a large
training fleet for superefficient scale.
So that's one. Second thing we
introduced is a uh a new uh ultra low
latency inference storage system uh
called rapid storage. Uh and the idea is
you can centrally keep the information
you want to inference on in uh cloud
storage, but you can mount it close to
where think of it as a forward proxy
like thing wherever your inference chips
are running. And so from your inference
uh processor down to the storage system,
rapid storage to fetch for inference,
it's incredibly fast. uh it's 15
terabytes per second. So you get ultra
low latency. You want to optimize all
this stuff on a common network backbone.
So we're introducing a new form of
networking called Virgo which gives you
ultra low connectivity speed across a
giant cluster. Uh so there are many many
other parts to the stack. We're also
co-designing uh because of agents coming
in. And the idea is to give people the
most efficient cost structure to run
agents with the best performance and
quality.
>> Where's the next big bottleneck?
>> The next big bottleneck will be largely
around when consumers use virtual
machines. You know, they let's say I'm a
consumer at home. I build an agent and
the agent is going to schedule travel
for me just hypothetically if you're
going on vacation
>> and you ask it to do a bunch of tasks
like go look up eight travel sites which
are exposed as tools. You know this
common thing now people call MCPs or
APIs. Let's go find all the travel
sites.
Let's say it's booking a trip to Europe
or to Southeast Asia. run that calculate
for me the total cost and tell me my
budget. Consumers cannot afford to have
VMs running forever. It's extremely
expensive as you know. So people will
want to activate deactivate VMs whenever
a task gets done and because they these
these tools need local storage uh they
these virtual machines can be overs
subscribed but you can also have local
disk in from which you read and write
super efficiently and so that's going to
be a bottleneck because it's going to
directly affect how widespread you can
make this technology available because
companies can pay for stuff. Obviously,
the cheaper and more efficient, they can
use more stuff, but if you want to bring
this to consumers, you know, for them it
gets expensive very quickly. And if you
want to reach everybody, you're going to
have to engineer the cost structure of
these things. And having again that
ability to go across the layers from the
agent down to Gemini down to the storage
system and the compute systems that
allows us to co-design. Thank you for
sharing that. I want to talk about
Anthropic a little bit. Anthropic is one
of Google's customers.
>> Yes,
>> they are a unique company in a lot of
ways.
>> Claude is one of Google's biggest rivals
at the same time. Yet, you are
essentially their backbone for a lot of
the training, a lot of the inference.
How do you think about that decision?
And I know we touched on it earlier, but
I want want to go into more detail. How
do you think about powering anthropics
models and then they are also competing
with Google? Is that the AWS playbook
where it's power everybody and we're
just not going to play favorites or is
it something different?
>> Google's a platform company, you know,
so when you're a platform company,
different parts of your business compete
with different players in the market.
Some parts of your business may supply
them and some part of the business may
compete with them. And so we're
determined to be best-in-class in the
models and we're very proud of what
we've done not just with Gemini the
model but also the whole tool chain that
we're bringing around Gemini with our
enterprise portfolio of tools. At the
same time you know there are customers
who want for example our TPUs and so
Anthropic is an example of them and it's
just part of being a platform company.
It's the same way that people ask us how
well do you optimize your model with
Apple. Apple for example has signed a
contract with us for the model as you
know and so people go isn't that
competing with your Android platform and
ecosystem. Yes. But that's part of being
a platform company.
>> Yeah. I think I'm I'm kind of stuck on
the anthropic piece because I mean they
are competing at the enterprise level
where Apple is not. Yeah. I'm I'm just
thinking you're you know you're you're
powering them and then at a certain
point we may get and although there's
plenty of TPU capacity to go around
right now as you said but at a certain
point there might have to be a difficult
decision. How do you make that decision
of well can we give the capacity to an
anthropic or do we keep it for Gemini?
Do we keep it for our own research? How
do you make that decision?
>> We have an executive team with Sundar
and we discuss these and as any mature
company we make those decisions. this
difficult calls every day. For instance,
we have demand not just from anthropic.
So what percentage are even if you said
there's X amount for Gemini and there's
Y amount for the rest of the world. What
amount do you give Anthropic versus the
hundreds of other labs and other
customers ask us for it? That's all
complicated decisions that anybody has
to make. What I'll tell you is this.
It's better to have your own chips and
demand than not having your own chips.
Yeah, well said. Mythos, you you kind of
hinted at it a little bit. I think it's
rumored to be the first 10 trillion
parameter model. Is Google playing in
the 10 trillion parameter model space
yet? Are you are you close to it? Where
are you in that in that life cycle?
>> You'll see new stuff from us on Gemini
uh with announcements coming both at
next and soon after. I think on the the
capability of the model, we're very
proud of where Gemini is. I mean, it's
been state-of-the-art for a long time.
We have a new version of Gemini coming
very very soon. And from all the
benchmarks we've seen, we've been very
confident on that as well.
>> So, hypothetically, if you think about a
10 trillion parameter model based on
what you oversee on the TPU side, is
that even a feasible size to serve in
the current state of the the the world?
We've had a capability to do
disagregated serving uh which allows us
to scale very large dense models super
well and that's been in place for a long
time and so we're able we would not
design a model that we couldn't serve
and so we're very confident of TPUs can
serve the largest models in the world
and most importantly our serving stack
we use for disagregated serving by
definition is the most efficient on TPU
uh in of all the model providers in the
industry. So we're very confident we can
serve the largest models particularly
the largest Gemini models.
>> Does this mean that we're not seeing any
slowdown on the scaling pre-training
side? You're not feeling it at all cuz
there was for a while in the industry
people talking about pre-training as
slowing down now let's focus on RL let's
focus on uh thinking time. You're not
seeing that at all. We're we're not
seeing that from the point of view of
chip design or system design or lack of
capacity or any of that.
>> And then what about the underlying data?
Are you seeing more
uh an effective use of synthetic data?
>> We are seeing I mean I'll give you two
or three examples of things we are
seeing. Historically, a lot of the data
that was fed into models was
unstructured data like text, audio,
video, files, etc. Those continue to
grow. But the reality of those is like
there are many elements in an enterprise
context which make them actually really
simple to deal with. When you ask a
question to an agent and you have the
agent respond and tell you, tell me the
citation or where did you derive this
answer from, it's easy if it's in a
document because you can just show a
link to that document. Now, just imagine
you ask the model a question, tell me
how much inventory we'll need to meet
demand for this product.
that is going to translate to a query on
a system like an SAP system or some kind
of supply chain system that's
dynamically going against a set of
tables. So first being accurate on
decomp decomposing that query into which
table is it getting it from and showing
the response like where is the citation
like how do we get this how do I know
the answer that you gave me is correct
is a much more complicated problem and
so because of the work we do in
enterprise we're able to feed Gemini a
lot more cycles into our uh you know uh
trajectory optimization harness
with structured data, complex things
like complex fields. Have you ever seen
a you know when you talk about computer
use in a browser use if you ever see an
enterprise application with a thousand
fields, drop- down lists, etc.,
>> there's no consumer app that would ever
have that complexity.
>> So being in this space also allows us to
teach our Gemini systems some of those
things and put it into the harness. I I
I let's let's continue on harnesses and
agent coding in general. Um I I've been
doing a lot of coding myself. There was
kind of a viral tweet that went around
about somebody who had a friend at
Google who basically said Google isn't
on the frontier of agentic coding
internally. What's your take on that? H
how has Google adopted agentic coding?
And especially again I have to bring up
anthropic the rate at which they're
shipping is incredible. How is Google
adopting the frontier of a jet to
coding? Today
>> we have a lot of engineers using jet ski
which is our internal coding harness and
that feedback has been going directly to
deep mind in the you know that
reinforcement loop and it's improving
quality of Gemini for coding every day
and we have a lot of people in my
organization using it.
>> One thing I've noticed I'm more
productive than ever.
>> I'm shipping so fast. I'm having so much
fun doing it. I'm not reviewing every
line of code.
>> Actually, I'm reviewing very few lines
of code.
>> But Google can't do that. I have little
toy projects. Google, you have high
stakes
>> uh projects and services and products
that you're serving.
>> How how can you both
>> be on the frontier of agentic coding and
be produc producing so many lines of
code, but also making sure that you're
maintaining that quality. also make sure
that you are actually reviewing every
single line of code that gets deployed.
>> So when we talk about software
engineering productivity,
we look at it slightly differently than
is reported externally. So if you work
in a in a company that builds products
like Google does, the reality is that
there are two or three examples of
things that you find that are really
important. like a senior engineer writes
much more compact code than a junior
engineer. So we don't count how many
lines of code as a measure because
that's generally you know a a weaker
engineer writes a lot more code to do
the same task that a senior engineer
does.
>> It's kind of a cliche right over the
years it's don't don't count lines of
code but I think now more than ever it's
just the shipping speed overall.
>> Yeah. So it's how much functions do we
add that's important.
>> Yeah. The second thing we've always had
a tradition at Google that when you go
to check in code you need peer review
typically the peer review is done by
senior managers right so and they become
the bottleneck so we've introduced and
people are using Gemini and we for
example recently in cloud introduced it
to scan for security vulnerabilities in
code so it's not just that the tool is
being used to generate code we're also
using it to inspect code and that helps
us Yet when the senior engineers come in
for the review, a bunch of free work has
been done. The third one is for the long
term in any real software company the
bulk of the time of the engineers where
they find doing less productive work is
debugging issues.
>> So we built a version of Gemini and one
of the things we're going to show next
week is you know what's the most complex
computer in the world? The most complex
computer in the world is a cloud. It
makes a PC look like a toy. And so we've
taken all of our cloud and exposes us
tools to the model. And so now we're
using Gemini to troubleshoot incidents
happening. And so that's also helped us
improve the speed with which people can
function and in turn improve the quality
of the model itself. So there's a number
of dimensions that through which we look
at the issue. But as productivity
increases and you're shipping more
features more quickly, I know lines of
code is not the measurement, but it's
certainly an uh an output of this
increased velocity.
>> There comes a a point where you just
cannot review every single line of code.
And and then I think kind of if you
think about abstracting and and going
beyond that, there's a point at which
humans are understanding the actual code
less and less over time. Especially as
you mentioned, if you're using AI to
review the code to debug
>> so if you're having AI create code, AI
review code,
>> are we losing the core understanding of
of code and the functionality being
deployed?
>> That's a risk that we have to manage as
an industry. People talk about I'm going
to give you a prompt and the prompt's
going to generate a block of code
>> and you don't need to understand the
code because you understand the prompt.
In reality for a complex system, the
prompt will not explain all the
potential behavior of the system,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> And so, for example, how do you deal
with exceptions?
uh and so that's something that I think
every time you find this one area like
some time ago people said you won't need
all these soft engineers and then
along comes the model and finds a lot of
security vulnerabilities
and just when we need a ton of software
engineers to work with models like we're
introducing a version of our model that
can actually fix bugs a fixed security
vulnerability specifically,
>> but you still need a human to use the
tool and and focus on it. Sometimes the
industry over rotates and so you say you
don't need anybody just when you need
it.
>> Yeah. And so we we take a much longer
term view of things and so we're
constantly looking at for instance do
you need a supervisor model to look at
code in a different way to actually
review the code and that's why when I
said we still do peer review of the code
and we're helping our senior engineers
use the tool to do the reviews and then
the question comes will the tool be
self-aware enough if it generated the
code will it find an issue with code
that it generated because it's not
self-aware of certain patterns. That's
something we're looking at approaches to
solve. And so
>> our goal has always been to make sure we
have the best model is to apply it at
scale. And in my team alone, we have
thousands of people using it every
single day. I mean, if you walk just
over there to the campus, you can see
people like six different windows open.
one in which they're coding, one in
which they're compiling, one in which
they're, you know, deploying and testing
and another one where they've got a
background job running to run code
review. I mean that the whole there's a
lot of people using the jet ski tool
harness and it's part of just evolving
how work is getting done.
>> You touched on cyber security. Let's
finish on that.
uh Anthropic decided the Mythos model
was too advanced in cyber security uh
capabilities to release publicly at
least not yet for Google. How do you
think about that? What was your
reaction? And then also is there some
line in the sand, some benchmark that
you think or you would determine Gemini
is no longer safe to release publicly?
>> We're working through that on what would
that line be? But our you know our issue
has been so if mythos finds a set of
issues what percentage of those issues
could be found with an open source model
and the reason I mention open source
model is no matter how much you defend
and you can say well I'll make sure
closed source models don't fall in
adversaries hands open source models for
sure are going to be following
adversaries
>> and they're just getting better
>> and they're getting better so sooner or
later
>> some part of this it may not be all of
the patterns but some part of it can be
detected. So what should you do in
response? And we are unique because
we're a hyperscaler, we're a model
provider, and we also have a cyber
security organization. Both our Mandian
team and WHIS. So we've done three
practical things. If people are going to
find issues using a model, you need to
have a model help fix issues because
they're going to find them way faster
than humans can fix. So you need a model
to help fix and so we're working on
something there. Second, if they're
going to find issues with models,
they're going to cause use the model and
computer use to launch a large scale
attack.
>> And so to defend that, using like I'll
red team my system once a month is not
going to be sufficient. So introducing
agents that can do continuous red
teaming and agents that can actually
help fix like for example it's one thing
to fix the code. It's the second thing
to find all the places the old code was
running and remove it and then deploy
the new code that's been patched and
updated. Right? So that's the second
piece. And the third piece is there's so
much code out there. What do I start
with?
>> Yeah. So again, that's another thing
where we built tools to help people
identify and prioritize what
>> is it. Is this an argument for or
against open- source software, not
models, but software? If you're open
source, your your your all your code is
out there. It is ripe for models to go
look at it, find vulnerabilities, and
exploit them. Closed source, you don't
have that problem. But on the other
hand, open source is going to get
hardened much more quickly. What is your
take on that? Is that an argument for or
against?
>> No, we we as Google use a ton of open
source and we contribute a ton of open
source. We're going to help the open
source community using our tools to
actually go fix these things.
>> I'm just pointing out the reality of
where things are is that adversaries are
going to use the model and the first
place they're going to try and scan is
popular open source libraries
>> because that gives them the maximum
surface area to try and attack. And so
it's those are all elements where we
think it's important to go and address
and fix and we're in process with the
rest of the industry. Thomas, last
question for you. What keeps you up at
night?
>> We, you know, we're balancing so many
things making sure we have to one part
of your discussion. Do we have right
tongue long-term plans for capital
infrastructure for data centers networks
enough of those lovely TPUs to go
around? Second, are we constantly
pushing the domain problems the
important problems? 3 years ago when we
said we should solve the problem of as
AI gets better, cyber is going to be
definitely an area that's affected.
>> Yeah. And when we made the offer to buy
whiz, people asked like why would you
guys be doing that? When we look at our
Gemini enterprise platform, just to give
you an example, between January and now
our token count has jumped from 10
billion a minute to 16 billion a minute.
And the number of enterprise users of
Gemini Enterprise has jumped by 40%
sequentially. So, we're always looking
at are we solving the right problems for
for customers and users and that's
always the focus for us. And as long as
we keep pushing aggressively on solving
those problems and staying ahead of the
market when the the technology is
evolving so quickly that when something
happens, you got to have solutions
before that occurs to the most part. and
our teams have done an amazing job and
we're super proud of what they've done
and looking forward to the event.
>> Thomas, thank you so much. Really
appreciate it.